---
title: Topology Notes (Munkres) - Chapter 2, Part 1
excerpt: "Topology notes "
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Math
tags:
  - math
  - blog
  - topology
  - munkres
  - notes
mathjax: true
---

## Topological Spaces
**Definition:** A topology on set $X$ is a collection $T$ of subsets of $X$ such that
1. $\varnothing$ and $X$ are in $T$
2. The union of the elements of any subcollection of $T$ is in $T$
3. The intersection of the elements in any finite subcollection of $T$ is in $T$

The topological space is an ordered pair $(X,T)$ such that $X$ is a set and $T$ is a topology on $X$.
If $X$ is topological space with topology $T$ then we say that a subset $U$ OF $X$ is open if $U \in T$. A topology is a collection of open subsets of $X$. Note that $\varnothing$ is open and $X$ should be open.

**Definition:** Suppose $T$ and $T^{'}$ are two topologies defined on $X$. If $T^{'} \subset T  $, we say that $T$ is finer,strictly finer and properly contains $T^{'}$. We say that $T^{'}$ is coarser,strictly coarser than $T$. If this condition is satisfied, we say that $T$ is comparable to $T^{'}$.
## Basis of a Topology
**Definition:** If $X$ is a set, then we say that $B^{'}$ is a basis for a topology on $X$, if $B^{'}$ is a collection of subsets of $X$ such that
1. For each $x \in X$, there is a corresponding $B \in B^{'}$ such that $x \in B$.
2. If $x \in B_{1} \cap B_{2}$ such that $B_{1},B_{2} \in B^{'}$, then there is an element $B_{3} \in B^{'}$ such that  $  B_{3} \subset B_{1} \cap B_{2}$
   
If $B^{'}$ is a basis, we define the topology $T$ generated by $B^{'}$ as follows: 
**Definition:** A subset $U$ of $X$ is said to be open( that is it is an element $T$) if for every $x \in X$, there is a basis element $B \in B^{'}$ such that $x \in B \subset U$. It is important to remember that each $B \in T$

*Proof:* Let's prove that this is infact a topology. We need to check if $\varnothing,X \in T$. For $\varnothing$ this is trivially true. For $x \in X$, according to the definition of a basis, there is an element $B \in B^{'}$ such that $x \in B$. Since $B \subset X$, this proves that $X \in T$.
Let's consider $U = \cup_{\alpha \in J} U_{\alpha}$ and prove that this is true. Given $x \in U$ there is one $\alpha$ such that $x \in U_{\alpha}$. By definition, there is a $B \in B^{'}$ such that $x \in B \subset U_{\alpha}$. This implies that $x \in B \subset U$. Hence it is open.

The next condition can be proved through induction. For $n=2$, consider $U_{1},U_{2} \in T$. We need to prove that $U_{1} \cap U_{2} \in T$. Given $x \in U_{1} \cap U_{2}$, there exists $B_{1} \in U_{1}$ and $B_{2} \in U_{2}$ such that $x \in B_{1} \subset U_{1}$ and $x \in B_{2} \subset U_{2}$. By definition, $x \in B_{3}$ such that $ B_{3} \subset  B_{1} \cap B_{2} $. This implies that $B_{3} \subset U_{1} \cap U_{2}   $. Hence it is open. Then we can assume this is true for $n-1$ and consider the intersection of all $n-1$ sets as a single open set and $U_{n}$ as another open set. Then we can apply the base case and prove it.

**Lemma 13.1:** Let $X$ be a set; let $B^{'}$ be a basis for a topology $T$ on $X$. Then $T$ equals the collection of all unions of elements of $B^{'}$.

*Proof:* Every $B \in B^{'}$ is in $T$. Because $T$ is a topology, their union is also in $T$. This implies that for all $B \in B^{'}$ , $\cup B \subset T$. To prove it the other direction, consider an open set $U$ and an arbitrary $x \in U$. By defintion there exists $B_{x} \in B^{'}$ such that $x \in B \subset U$. This implies that $U = \cup_{x \in U} B_{x}$. This implies $T$ equals the collection of all unions of elements of $B^{'}$

**Lemma 13.2:** Let $X$ be a topological space. Suppose that $C^{'}$ is a collection of open sets of $X$ such that for each open set $U$ of $X$ and each $x$ in $U$, there is an element $C$ of $C^{'}$ such that $x \in C \subset U$. Then $C$ is a basis for the topology of $X$.

*Proof:* Let's check the first condition. For each $x \in X$, since $X$ is an open subset, by assumption there is $x \in C \subset X$. Now let's move on to checking the second condition. Let $x \in C_{1} \subset C_{2}$. Since both subsets are open $C_{1} \cap C_{2}$ is open and therefore an element of $X$. Hence by definition there is an element $C_{3}$ of $C^{'}$ such that $x \in C_{3} \subset C_{1} \cap C_{2}$. Then $C^{'}$ is a basis for the topology of $X$.
We also need to show that the topology generated by $C^{'}$, let's call it $T^{'}$, is the same as the topology $T$ of $X$. If $U \in T$ by definition for every $x \in U$ there is an element in $C \in C^{'}$ such that $x \in C \subset U$. This implies that $U \in T^{'}$ (based on the definition of a basis). Similarly, consider $W \in T{'}$ by the preceding lemma it is a union of elements of $C^{'}$. Since each element of $C^{'}$ belongs to $T$, $W$ belongs to $T$. Hence proved.

**Lemma 13.3:** Let $B$ and $B^{'}$ be bases for the topologies $T$ and $T^{'}$, respectively, on $X$. Then the following are equivalent:
1. $T^{'}$ is finer than $T$.
2. For each $x \in X$ and each basis element $B_{\alpha} \in B$ containing $x$, there is a basis element $B^{'}_{\alpha} \in B^{'}$ such that $x \in B^{'}_{\alpha} \subset B_{\alpha}$
*Proof:* 
Let's prove that $U \in T \implies U \in T^{'}$ given that conidition 2 is true. Take an arbitrary $x \in U$. Then by definition of a basis there is $B_{\alpha} in B$ such that $x \in B_{\alpha} \subset U$. By condition two this also means that there is$B^{'}_{\alpha} \in B^{'}$ such that $x \in B^{'}_{\alpha} \subset B_{\alpha}$. Therefore $x \in B^{'}_{\alpha} \subset U$. By definition, $U \in T^{'}$.
Now the other way around. $T \subset T^{'}$ implies that every $B_{\alpha} \in B$ is in $T^{'}$. Then by definition of a basis, we have $B^{'}_{\alpha} \in B^{'}$ such that $x \in B^{'}_{\alpha} \subset B_{\alpha}$

**Definition:** If $B^{'}$ is the collection of all open intervals in the real line, $(a,b) = \{x | a < x < b\}$, the topology generated by $B^{'}$ is called the standard topology on the real line. It is denoted by $R$.

**Definition:** If $B^{'}$ is the collection of all open intervals in the real line, $(a,b) = \{x | a \leq x < b\}$, the topology generated by $B^{'}$ is called the lower limit topology on the real line. It is denoted by $R_{l}$

**Definition:** Let $K$ be the set of all numbers of the form $\frac{1}{n}$, for $n \in Z_{+}$, and let $B^{'}$ the collection of all open intervals $(a,b)$, along with all sets of the form $(a,b) - K $. The topology generated thus is called  K-Topology in $R$. It is denoted by $R_{k}$.

**Lemma 13.4:** The topologies of $R_{l}$ and $R_{k}$ are strictly finer than the standard topology on $R$, but are not comparable with one another.
*Proof:* Let $T,T^{'},T^{''}$ be the topologies genearted by $R,R_{l},R_{k}$. Using Lemma 13.3, given a basis element $(a,b)$ in $T$ and $x \in (a,b)$ we can find a basis $[x,c)$ where $c < b$ such that $x \in [x,c) \in (a,b)$. On the other hand, given the basis element $[x, d)$for $T^{'}$, there is no open interval $(a, b)$ that contains $x$ and lies in $[x, d)$. Thus $T^{'}$ is strictly finer than $T$.
Given a basis element $(a,b)$ of $T$ and $x \in (a,b)$, we can take the same interval to be the basis element of $T^{''}$ that contains $x$. Going the other way around let's take the interval $B = (-1,1) - K \in T^{''}$ and the point 0, there is no interval in $T$ that contains 0 and is a subset of $B$.

**Definition:** A subbasis $S$ for a topology on $X$ is a collection of subsets of $X$ whose union equals $X$. The topology generated by the subbasis $S$ is defined to be the collection $T$ of all unions of finite intersections of elements of $S$.
*Proof:*. Here we only need to show that $B^{'}$, the collection of all finite intersection of $S$ is a basis. Then the result follows from Lemma 13.1.\\
If $x \in X$, $x \in S$ as union of $S$ equal $X$. Then it follows that $x \in B \in B^{'}$. Thus the first condition is met.
Then we move to the second condition. Here we take $B_{1} = (S_{1} \cap  S_{2} ... \cap S_{n})$ and $B_{2} = (S_{1} \cap S_{2} ... \cap S_{m})$. Their intersection $B_{1} \cap B_{2}$ then is an element of $B^{'}$ as it is an intersection of elements of $S$. Hence it is a basis.
