---
title: Topology by Munkres - Chapter 2, Section 13
excerpt: "Topology solutions for Munkres"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Math
tags:
  - math
  - blog
  - topology
mathjax: true
---

## Section 13
**Only questions that require a proof  have been solved**
### Exercise 1
Let $$X $$be a topological space; let $$A$$ be a subset of $$X$$. Suppose that for each $$x \in A$$
there is an open set $$U$$ containing $$x$$ such that $$U \subset A$$. Show that $$A$$ is open in $$X$$.
*Proof:*
Let $$U_{\alpha}$$ be the union of every $$U$$. By definition it is a basis of $$X$$. We also know that for every elemt $$x \in A$$ there is a $$U \in U_{\alpha}$$ such that $$U \subset A$$. This is by definition an open set.
### Exercise 3
Is the collection $$T_{\infty} = \{U |X - U $$ is infinite or empty or all of $$X\}$$ a topology on $$X$$?
*Proof:*
If $$X$$ is finite, it is trivial to see that $$T_{\infty}$$ is a Topology. If $$X$$ is not finite, fix an $$x_{0}$$ and let $$L = \cup_{x \neq x_{0}} \{x\}$$. Then the complement of $$X - L = x_{0}$$ which is not open. This contradicts the definition of a topological space.
### Exercise 4.a
Is $$\{T_{\alpha}\}$$ is a family of topologies on $$X$$. Show that $$\cap T_{\alpha}$$ is a topology on $$X$$. Is $$\cup T_{\alpha}$$ a topology on $$X$$?
*Proof:*
We'll prove this through induction. Consider the base case $$n=2$$. Let $$T_{1}$$ and $$T_{2}$$ be two topologies on $$X$$. Then we have to prove that $$T_{1} \cap T_{2}$$ is a Topology on $$X$$ as well.
$$\varnothing,X \in T_{1}$$ and $$\varnothing,X \in T_{2} \implies \varnothing,X \in T_{1} \cap T_{2}$$.
Let $$\cup_{\alpha = J} U_{\alpha}$$ for an index set $$J$$. Since $$T_{1},T_{2}$$ are topologies on $$X$$, we have $$\cup_{\alpha = J} U_{\alpha} \in T_{1}$$  and $$\cup_{\alpha = J} U_{\alpha} \in T_{2} \implies \cup_{\alpha = J} U_{\alpha} \in T_{1} \cap T_{2} $$  .
Let $$\cap_{\alpha = J} U_{\alpha}$$ for an index set $$J$$. Since $$T_{1},T_{2}$$ are topologies on $$X$$, we have $$\cap_{\alpha = J} U_{\alpha} \in T_{1}$$  and $$\cap_{\alpha = J} U_{\alpha} \in T_{2} \implies \cap_{\alpha = J} U_{\alpha} \in T_{1} \cap T_{2} $$  .
Assume this is true for all $$n$$. For $$n+1$$ we have the term
$$(T_{1} \cap  T_{2} \cap ...  \cap T_{n})  \cap T_{n+1}$$.
Since this is already a Topology by inductive hypothesis, $$(T_{1} \cap  T_{2} \cap ...  \cap T_{n})$$, we can name it $$T^{'}$$. We have already proven that the intersection of two topologies is a topology. Applying that here, we prove that $$T^{'} \cap T_{n+1}$$ is a topology on $$X$$.
As far as the second question goes - not always. 
### Exercise 4.b
Let $$\{T_{a}\}$$ be a family of topologies on $$X$$. Show that there is a unique smallest topology on X containing all the collections $$T_{a}$$, and a unique largest topology contained in all  $$T_{a}$$.
*Proof:*
The unique largest topology contained in all  $$T_{a}$$. is $$I = \cap T_{\alpha}$$. Assume this is not true. By definition the number of elements common to all $${T_{\alpha}}$$ is $$\lvert I \rvert $$. But for a larger topology to exists there must be a topology with $$I^{'}$$ with $$ \lvert I^{'} \rvert > \lvert I \rvert$$. This is a contradiction as the number of elements $${T_{\alpha}}$$ has in common can never be greater than $$\lvert I \rvert$$.
The unique smallest topology on X containing all the collections $$T_{a}$$ is $$I = \cup T_{\alpha}$$. Assume this is not the case. Then there exist a smaller topology $$I^{'}$$ such that$$ \lvert I^{'} \rvert < \lvert I \rvert$$. Since elements never repeat in $$I$$ that means that a set of distinct element $$X$$ are not in $$I^{'}$$. By definition $$x \in T_{k}$$ where $$x \in X$$. But if this $$x$$ is not present that means that this new topology does not contain all collections of $$T_{\alpha}$$. Hence proved.

### Exercise 5
Show that if $$A$$ is a basis for a topology on $$X$$, then the topology generated by $$A$$ equals the intersection of all topologies on $$X$$ that contain $$A$$. Prove the same if $$A$$ is a subbasis.
*Proof:*
Let $$T$$ be the topology generated by $$A$$. According to Lemma 1.31 $$U = \cup_{x \in U} A_{x} $$for every $$U \in T$$. Let $$S = \{T_{\alpha}\}$$ be a family of topologies. Let $$I = \cap_{}T_{\alpha}$$. According to our assumption $$A$$ is contained in this set. Since $$I$$ itself is a topology, $$\{\cup_{x \in U} A_{x} | U \in T\} \subset I$$. $$I$$ is the intersection of all topologies that contain $$A$$ which implies that $$ I \subset T$$. Hence $$I = T$$
Subbasis has a similar proof.
### Exercise 6
Show that the topologies of $$R_{l}$$ and $$R_{K}$$ are not comparable.
*Proof:*
Use $$[-1,0)$$ and $$(-1,1)$$ as counter examples. 
### Exercise 8.a
Apply Lemma 13.2 to show that the countable collection $$B = ((a, b) | a < b, a$$ and $$b$$ rational$$)$$
*Proof:*
Let $$B_{\alpha} = (a,b)$$ be an arbitrary open set in $$B$$. Let $$e$$ be an arbitrary element of that. Then we can find an interval $$I = (\frac{a+ e_{\beta}}{2},\frac{b+e_{\gamma}}{2})$$ such that $$e_{\beta} < e,e_{\gamma} > e$$ and are rational and $$e \in I \subset B_{\alpha}$$
### Exercise 8.b
Show that the collection $$G = ([a, b) | a < b,a$$ and $$b$$ rational$$)$$ is a basis that generates a topology different from the lower limit topology on $$R$$.
*Proof:*
Note that $$R$$ is countable and $$Q$$ is uncountable. Let $$T$$ be the topology generated by $$G$$. By lemma 13.3, for every element $$x \in Q$$, the condition $$x \in B \subset G$$ holds where $$B$$ is the basis of $$R_{l}$$. Here $$G$$ is countable and $$B$$ is uncountable. All subsets of countable sets are countable. A contradiction, hence proved.

