---
title: Topology Solution (Munkres) - Chapter 2, Part 1
excerpt: "Topology solutions for Munkres"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Math
tags:
  - math
  - blog
  - topology
  - munkres
  - solutions
mathjax: true
---

## Section 13
**Only questions that require a proof  have been solved**
### Exercise 1
Let $X $be a topological space; let $A$ be a subset of $X$. Suppose that for each $x \in A$
there is an open set $U$ containing $x$ such that $U \subset A$. Show that $A$ is open in $X$.
*Proof:*
Let $U^{'}$ be the collection of all $U$. According to the definition of a basis, we can see that if there exists an open set $B \in B^{'}$ such that $x \in B \subset A$, we can call the subset $A$ of X to be open. Here replace $B^{'}$ with $U^{'}$ and we're done.
### Exercise 3
Is the collection $T_{\infty} = \{U |X - U $ is infinite or empty or all of $X\}$ a topology on $X$?
*Proof:*
Assume $X$ is finite. Then the only elements of $T_{\infty}$ are $\varnothing$ and $X$. It is trivial to see that this is a topology. If $X$ is infinite, $T_{\infty}$ would still contain $\varnothing$ and $X$. Clearly $\{x\} \in T_{\infty}$ for $x \in X$ Let us define $U = \{x \in X | x \neq x_{0}\}$. We know that $\{x_{0}\} \in T_{\infty}$, but $U \not\in T$ as $X -U $ is finite. But $U$ can be expressed as the union $I = \cup_{x \neq x_{0}} x$. Hence $T_{\infty}$ is not closed under unions.
### Exercise 4.a
If $\{T_{\alpha}\}$ is a family of topologies on $X$. Show that $\cap T_{\alpha}$ is a topology on $X$. Is $\cup T_{\alpha}$ a topology on $X$?
*Proof:* 
It is clear that $\varnothing,X \in \cap T_{\alpha}$ since $\varnothing, X$ in every $T_{\alpha}$. Let's prove the other two conditions. Let $T^{'} = \cap T_{\alpha}$. Define $I = \cup_{\alpha \in T^{'}} T^{'}_{\alpha}$. Let there be an $x \in I$ such that $I \not\in T^{'}$. Every $T^{'}_{\alpha}$ is in every $T_{\alpha}$. Since they are a topology, $I \in T_{\alpha}$ for every $\alpha$. This implies that $I \in T^{'}$. Hence a contradiction. 
For the intersection of a finite number of subcollection, we can use induction. Let $n=2$, and consider $T_{1},T_{2} \in T_{\alpha}$ for very $\alpha$. Then by definition $T_{1} \cap T_{2} \in T_{\alpha}$ for every $\alpha$. Therefore, $T_{1} \cap T_{2} \in I$. Assume this is true for all $n - 1$. Consider the expression, $(T_{1} \cap T_{2} ... \cap T_{n-1}) \cap T_{n}$. We already know that  $(T_{1} \cap T_{2} ... \cap T_{n-1}) \in I$ through the inductive hypothesis and $T_{n} \in I$ by definition. Then applying the base case here, gives that  $(T_{1} \cap T_{2} ... \cap T_{n-1}) \cap T_{n} \in I$.
As far as the union goes, not necessarily. Consider $X = {a,b,c}$. Consider two topologies $T_{1} = \{\phi,\{a\},\{v\},\{a,b\},\{a,b,c,X\}\}$ and $T_{2} = \{\phi,\{a\},\{c\},\{a,c\},\{a,b,c\}\}$. Let $T_{3} = T_{1} \cup T_{2} =  \{\phi,\{a\},\{b\},\{c\},\{a,b\},\{a,c\},\{a,b,c\},X\}$. But $\{b\} \cup \{c\} \not\in T_{3}$. Hence proved.
### Exercise 4.b
Let $\{T_{a}\}$ be a family of topologies on $X$. Show that there is a unique smallest topology on X containing all the collections $T_{a}$, and a unique largest topology contained in all  $T_{a}$.
*Proof:*
The unique largest topology is $T = \cup T_{\alpha}$. According to the previous problem, this is a topology. By definition of a set intersection, this is the unique and largest topology contained in all collections $T_{a}$.
Let $R$ be the set of all topologies such that any topology $T \in R$ is finer than all $T_{\alpha}$ for all $\alpha$. This set cannot be empty as it contains the discrete topology. Let $S$ the intersection of all elements of this $R$. By the previous problem, $S$ is a topology. It is clearly the unique and smallest topology with the aforementioned property.
### Exercise 5
Show that if $A$ is a basis for a topology on $X$, then the topology generated by $A$ equals the intersection of all topologies on $X$ that contain $A$. Prove the same if $A$ is a subbasis.
*Proof:*
Let $T$ be the topology generated by $A$. Then $T = \{\cup_{A_{x} \in L} A_{x} | L \subset A\}$ according to Lemma 13.1. Let $\{T_{\alpha}\}$ be the family of topologies on $X$. Note that $T$ is a member of $T_{\alpha}$. Furthermore, set $M = \cap T_{\alpha}$. Assume $x \in T$ and $x \not\in M$. That means that $x \not\in T_{\alpha} (\text{where } T_{\alpha} \neq T)$ But $A \in T_{\alpha}$ for all $\alpha$. We know that the union of the elements any subcollection of $T_{\alpha}$ is in $T_{\alpha}$. $T$ is such a union. This is a contradiction. Hence $x \in T \implies x \in M$. 
Let's prove the other direction. Assume $x \in M$ and $x \not\in T$. That means that $x \in T_{\alpha}$ for every $\alpha$. Hence $x \in T$ as it is member of that familty. This is a contradiction. Hence proved.
The proof is similar for subbasis.
### Exercise 6
Show that the topologies of $R_{l}$ and $R_{K}$ are not comparable.
*Proof:*
Let $T, T^{'}$ be the topologies of $R_{l}$ and $R_{k}$ respectively. Assume $T \subset T^{'}$. Then for each $x \in R$ and each $B \in R_{l}$ there is an element in $B^{'} \in R_{k}$ such that $x \in B^{'} \subset B$. Consider the interval $I = [2,3)$, There is no interval in $R_{k}$ that contains $2$ and is a subset of $I$.
Simialarly, for the other way around we can consider the element $0$ and the open interval $(-1,1)$
### Exercise 8.a
Apply Lemma 13.2 to show that the countable collection $B = ((a, b) | a < b, a$ and $b$ rational$)$ is a basis that generates the standard topology on $R$.
*Proof:*
We're going to use the fact that there is a rational between any two real numbers. Consider an open set $B^{'} = (a,b)$ of $R$. Consider $e \in B^{'}$. Select two rational numbers $p,q$ such that $a < p < e$ and $ e < q < b$. Then we have an open interval $B_{\alpha} = (p,q)$ where $B_{\alpha} \in B$ such that $e \in B_{\alpha} \subset B^{'}$. According to lemma 13.2, this implies that $B$ is a basis on $R$.
### Exercise 8.b
Show that the countable collection $B = ([a, b) | a < b, a$ and $b$ rational$)$ is a basis that generates a different topology from  topology on $R_{l}$.
*Proof:*
Take an open set $[\sqrt{2},3]$. Or any irrational number for that matter. If the topologies generated by these two basis are equal, then for every $x$, there must be an element $B_{\alpha} \in B$ and $B^{'}_{\alpha} \in R_{l}$ such that $x \in B_{\alpha} \subset B^{'}_{\alpha}$. Let $x = \sqrt{2}$. Assume there exists another interval  $L = [a,b)$ such that $\sqrt{2} \in L$ and $L \subset B^{'}_{\alpha}$. Clearly $a \neq \sqrt{2} \implies a < \sqrt{2}$. Let's consider a $y$ such that $ a < y < \sqrt{2}$. Clearly $y \not\in [\sqrt{2},3)$. Hence $L \not\subset B^{'}_{\alpha}$. This is a contradiction. Hence proved. 